destination: Dubai
source_title: Wikivoyage — Dubai — Overview
source_url: https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Dubai
---
WARNING: Military strikes from the US/Israel–Iran conflict have affected parts of the Middle East. Many airports and sea ports are closed, and some airspaces and ship routes are restricted. Some civilian facilities like airports and tourist attractions have been targeted by airstrikes. As of mid-April, all airports in the region are open, except Kuwait and some in Iran, though expect limitations and disruptions. Cruise shipping in this area is still infeasible due to blockade of Persian Gulf by both Iran and US. Check with government authorities for up-to-date safety information and with your airline or shipping line if your travel plans involve travelling through or to the Gulf States. Avoid travel to or via the region where possible. See war zone safety for more safety information, particularly under airstrikes and explosions. Government travel advisories Australia Canada Italy New Zealand United Kingdom United States (Information last updated 16 Apr 2026) Dubai is a huge city with several district articles that contain information about specific sights, restaurants, and accommodation. Dubai (Arabic: دبي‎‎ Dubayy) is a cosmopolitan metropolis and global city on the Arabian Peninsula. The city is one of the ten most popular tourist destinations in the world. The city is also considered one of the most modern and progressive cities in the Middle East – certainly in the Arab world – and is also sometimes nicknamed as "City of Gold" due to historically being a hub for gold trade as well as the rapid transformation from a desert into a luxurious city. Shoreline of Dubai as seen from space, with artificial islands Dubai is characterized by a vast landscape of desert which transforms into a futuristic style of skyscrapers along the coastline. The city offers both insights into the old merchant and pearl diving history of the Arabs in Deira and Bur Dubai and the new modern skyscraper business and bustling life in Jumeirah and Jebel Ali. Dubai is sometimes mistakenly thought of as a country, but it is actually one of the emirates that make up the United Arab Emirates. It is the financial centre of the United Arab Emirates. Dubai is also considered a commercial and cultural hub of the Middle East, it's a global transport hub, and has attracted world attention through many large innovative construction projects and sports events. The city is symbolised by its skyscrapers, including the world's tallest building, Burj Khalifa, in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands, world-class luxury hotels, and some of the largest and extraordinarily modern shopping malls in the world. Districts Dubai regions - Color-coded map — switch to interactive map 25°4′48″N 55°9′0″EDubai regions - Color-coded map — switch to static mapDubai regions - Color-coded map Deira The old financial centre, today a bustling commercial-residential district with old souks, including one specializing in spices Bur Dubai A historical district on the south side of Dubai Creek, with attractions from abras to souks to floating restaurants to the famous Creek Jumeirah A diverse mix of residential and tourist destinations. It's influenced by European architecture and designs. Jumeirah is favored by Westerners due to easy access to the beach. Jumeirah Beach, Dubai Marina and Jumeirah Road are the top attractions. Marina is a mega-development full of skyscrapers. The Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa lie in Downtown Dubai, which is between Jumeriah and the rest of Dubai's suburbs. Jebel Ali Mega man-made port, location of the new airport, Dubai World Central, the venue for Expo 2020, and the entry point to the Palm Jebel Ali Suburbs and Hatta Suburban Dubai inland from the coast and Hatta, the exclave at the border with Oman. Understand History Dubai began as a small fishing village on the coast of the eastern Arabian Peninsula. At the beginning, the town made its income as a small pearl diving town. However, as expanding trade boomed across the gulf, it became a trading hub between Iran and India and gained a lot of notoriety for its imported goods from the East. In fact, the currency of Dubai used to be the Indian rupee historically. Dubai was also used as a smuggling town to smuggle gold from Africa and elsewhere and import it to India, this made Dubai a well-known point in the map for various traders. When oil companies looked for oil around the Trucial States, Dubai was shown to not have any significant oil reserves compared to Abu Dhabi. Sheikh Rashid Al Maktoum, then the leader and Sheikh of Dubai, continued on the booming expansion of trade in Dubai instead of relying on any oil income. He welcomed Indian traders, Iranian traders, and even Western officials and travelers to his hometown. The open policy of commerce and tolerance of foreigners made Dubai a willing destination for any non-Arab or non-Muslim, in stark contrast to other cities in the Arabian Peninsula, which viewed non-Muslims with suspicion. Sheikh Rashid's son, Sheikh Mohammed, had a vision of establishing Dubai as a Middle Eastern tourist destination. In his memoir, when he met with other GCC heads of state after the British withdrawal from the Gulf and proposed on making Dubai a tourist destination, the rest of the Sheikhs laughed at him. They told him nobody would like to come and visit a barren desert. Nevertheless, Sheikh Mohammed made the effort to hire experts and change the entire infrastructure of the city to welcome tourists, established free-zones with no taxes, invested in major tourism projects and opened the city for everyone regardless of race or religion. Multiple Western companies and institutions, wanting to expand their influence in the Middle East, welcomed Dubai's tax-free open-arm invitation. Dubai was seen as the only city in the Arabian Peninsula that would allow non-Muslims to
