destination: Istanbul
source_title: Wikivoyage — Istanbul — Overview
source_url: https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Istanbul
---
Istanbul is a huge city with several district articles that contain information about specific sights, restaurants, and accommodation. Istanbul (Turkish: İstanbul) is a very large city of fantastic history, culture and beauty. Called Byzantium in ancient times, the city's name was changed to Constantinople in 324 CE when it was rebuilt by the first Christian Roman Emperor, Constantine. The name "Istanbul", perhaps surprisingly, comes from Greek and could be translated as a corruption of "to the city". While the term had been in widespread use for centuries, it only became the official name of the city upon the foundation of the Republic of Turkey in the 1920s. Hagia Sophia is among the top 10 most visited places on earth The most populous city in Europe, Istanbul forms the financial and cultural center of Turkey and confidently straddles the borders between Asia and Europe as it has for millennia: this is the result when you mix ancient Christendom, a medieval metropolis and the modern Middle East. Situated on either side of the Bosphorus, Istanbul retains its metropolitan status: the city's population is more than 14 million people, making it one of the largest cities in the world. Lauded in antiquity as "the second Rome", this is a city where you most certainly should roam — culture and excitement lie around every corner and more than 2,000 years of history await you. Districts European Side Istanbul regions - Color-coded map — switch to interactive map 41°2′18″N 29°0′29″EIstanbul regions - Color-coded map — switch to static mapIstanbul regions - Color-coded map Historical Peninsula Essentially Constantinople of the Romans, Byzantines, and Ottomans, this is the walled inner city, with most of the famous historical sights of Istanbul. Galata Once a colony of various European nations, mostly non-Muslim populated district of Ottoman Istanbul. With Beyoğlu in its core, İstiklal Avenue is perhaps the best-known street, and Taksim Square is perhaps the most central point in the city life. European Bosphorus From Beşiktaş to Sarıyer, it covers the European bank of the Bosphorus, lined by numerous palaces, parks, waterfront mansions, and bohemian neighborhoods. Golden Horn The banks of the Golden Horn, the estuary that separates the European side into distinctive areas. Eyüpsultan holding on tightly to its Ottoman, and Islamic heritage is the highlight whilst Balat blends in the Christian heritage. New City The region that encompasses the main business district of the city - Levent as well as home to luxury neighborhoods as Etiler and designer fashion outlets in areas such as Nişantaşı. Western Suburbs Mostly residential region of the European side. The coastal areas like Bakırköy tend to have more historicity whilst inner areas like Bahçeşehir tend to have a modern accent. Countryside The western part of the European side, including the countryside across the Çatalca Peninsula, home to scattered Byzantine ruins and lonely beaches. Asian Side Asian Bosphorus From Üsküdar to Beykoz, it covers the Asian bank of the Bosphorus, lined by numerous palaces, parks, waterfront mansions, and bohemian neighborhoods. Kadıköy The locals' favorite. The most vibrant district on Istanbul’s Asian side, if not on both sides. Known for its rich cultural scene, lively nightlife, historic roots, and a unique blend of bohemian and modern urban life. Princes' Islands An excellent getaway from the city, this is an archipelago of car-free islands of various sizes, with splendid wooden mansions, verdant pine forests and nice views: not only on the islands, but also on the way there. Eastern Suburbs Mostly residential region of the Asian side. The coastal areas like Maltepe tend to have more historicity, whilst inner areas like Ataşehir tend to have a modern accent. Şile A picturesque coastal district on Istanbul’s Black Sea shore, known for its sandy beaches, summer resorts, and tranquil atmosphere, making it a popular getaway for city dwellers. Understand “ Istanbul was Constantinople. Now it's Istanbul, not Constantinople ” Jimmy Kennedy, Istanbul (Not Constantinople), 1953 History Galata as seen from Old Istanbul across the Golden Horn While relics of prehistoric human settlement were found in the Yarımburgaz Cave near the Küçükçekmece Lake and during the construction of a subway station in Yenikapı, Greek colonists from Megara, directed by their legendary leader Byzas, have been traditionally accepted as the founders of Istanbul. Expanding the ancient Greek colony of Byzantium by the order of the Roman Emperor Constantine the Great, the imperial city of Constantinople was for nearly a thousand years the heavily-fortified capital of the Eastern Roman (later termed Byzantine) Empire. To this day, the Ecumenical Patriarch, head of the Eastern Orthodox Church continues to be the Archbishop of Constantinople, who is still based in Istanbul. It was finally conquered by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II on 29 May 1453, an event sometimes used to mark the end of the Middle Ages. It was the nerve centre for military campaigns that were to enlarge the Ottoman Empire dramatically. By the mid-1500s, Istanbul, with a population of almost half a million, was a major cultural, political, and commercial centre. Ottoman rule continued until it was defeated in the first World War and Istanbul was occupied by the allies. When the Republic of Turkey was born in 1923 after the War of Independence, Kemal Atatürk moved its capital to the city of Ankara, strategically located in the centre of the new republic. However, Istanbul has continued to expand dramatically; today its population is approximately 14 million and increases at an estimated 400,000 immigrants per year. Industry has expanded even as tourism has grown. It continues to be a city that creates its own history at the intersection where both continents meet. Orientation Istanbul is divided in three by the north-south Bosphorus Strait (İstanbul Boğazı, "the strait of Istanbul"), the dividing line between Europe and Asia, the estuary of the Golden Horn (Haliç) bisecting the western part and the Sea of Marmara (Marmara Denizi) forming a boundary to the south. Most sights are concentrated in the old city on the peninsula of Sultanahmet, to the west of the Bosphorus between the Horn and the Sea. Across the Horn to the north are Galata, Beyoğlu and Taksim, the heart of modern Istanbul, while Kadıköy is the major district on the comparatively less-visited Anatolian side of the city. The Black Sea forms the relatively less developed northern boundary of Istanbul. Climate Istanbul Climate chart (explanation) JFMAMJJASOND 26 96 9 4 25 88 9 4 12 70 12 5 0 45 16 8 0 37 21 13 0 45 26 17 0 36 28 20 0 44 28 21 0 81 25 17 0 98 20 14 2.6 101 15 9 22 125 11 6 Average max. and min. temperatures in °C Precipitation+Snow totals in mmSee the 4 day forecast for Istanbul at the Turkish State Meteorological Service Imperial conversion JFMAMJJASOND 1 3.8 48 38 1 3.5 49 38 0.5 2.7 54 41 0 1.8 61 47 0 1.5 70 55 0 1.8 78 63 0 1.4 82 69 0 1.7 83 70 0 3.2 76 63 0 3.9 68 56 0.1 4 59 49 0.9 4.9 51 42 Average max. and min. temperatures in °F Precipitation+Snow totals in inches Despite what its stereotypes, artificially placed palm trees, or misleading tourism brochures may imply, Istanbul is not the sunny, warm year-round holiday destination some people might hope it is. In fact, Istanbul has way more in common with Southwestern France or the Pacific Northwest than with virtually all of the cities near the Mediterranean Sea, with an average temperature around 12-14°C, it is only 1°C warmer than New York, and around the same average temperature as Portland, Oregon or Bordeaux, France. Simply put, Istanbul has an oceanic climate with some Mediterranean influences. This means very warm, mostly sunny summers, and cool to chilly, bleak winters with very frequent rain and, on occasion, snow. Istanbul is a fairly cloudy city, especially for the Eastern Mediterranean, with around 1,700-2,300 hours of sunshine, which means the skies are overcast around half of the time. Overcast conditions can occur because of dense fog, which is common year-round, affecting certain inland parts of Istanbul for an impressive 200 days per year. However, because of the urbanization of Istanbul and the resulting 'urban heat island', fog has become increasingly rare in the densely inhabited coastal regions of Istanbul, making summers much sunnier than they once were. Another potentially surprising part of Istanbul's climate is its frequent rainfall, as even though rainfall varies a lot depending on where you are in the city, the city average is somewhere around 800mm over some 150 days of the year. This makes umbrellas useful, especially in summer and fall when rains tend to be heavier. Istanbul is wetter than most major European cities, such as London, Paris, or Berlin. However, a large part of Istanbul's rainfall happens in the colder months, leaving the warmest months to sunny, moderately dry weather. Before getting into more detailed information, it's important to understand that because of its huge size, topography, and maritime influences, Istanbul exhibits a multitude of distinct microclimates. Thus, different sections of Istanbul can experience different weather conditions at the same time. A good example of this would be the occasional summer showers in the city. These showers often affect the north of the city much more than the south, and the south would likely stay dry while the north gets soaked. Summer The annual Bosphorus Cross-Continental Swim Summer (Jul-Aug) is generally quite warm, averaging around 26°C during the day and 17°C at night. The weather is often pleasant, and there is an almost constant northeasterly wind called Poyraz that prevents the city from experiencing temperatures higher than 32-33°C on most years. However, the same breezy conditions, also bring very humid air from the Black Sea, causing very muggy conditions, which raises the perceived temperature quite a bit. Summer is relatively dry, but generally not rainless, with around four to five rainy days a month. The rain that does fall during this time can get heavy however, and for a number of reasons Istanbul is known to be a severe weather hotspot, with, among other things, around 2-3 hailstorms
