destination: Singapore
source_title: Wikivoyage — Singapore — Overview
source_url: https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Singapore
---
Singapore is a huge city with several district articles that contain information about specific sights, restaurants, and accommodation. Singapore (Chinese: 新加坡; Malay: Singapura; Tamil: சிங்கப்பூர்) is a city-state in Southeast Asia. Modern Singapore was founded as a British trading colony in 1819, and since independence, it has become one of the world's most prosperous countries and boasts one of the world's busiest ports. Singaporean food is legendary, with bustling hawker centres and 24-hour coffee shops offering affordable food from all parts of Asia. Combining the skyscrapers and shopping malls of an affluent modern city with a medley of different Asian cultures and a tropical climate, good shopping and a vibrant nightlife scene, this Garden City makes a great stopover or springboard into the region. The country has a partly deserved reputation for its sterile predictability. Nevertheless, the "Switzerland of Asia" is for many a welcome respite from the chaos, dirt and poverty of much of the rest of Southeast Asia. If you scratch below the squeaky clean surface and get away from the tourist trail you'll soon find more than meets the eye in one of the few remaining city-states in the world. Districts Sometimes referred to as the Little Red Dot (originally coined as a pejorative by the former Indonesian president B. J. Habibie) or the Lion City (a literal translation of the original Sanskrit name), Singapore is a small country on a small island with six million people. It is a fairly crowded city and in fact, it is second only to Monaco as the world's most densely populated country. However, Singapore has over 50% of its area covered in greenery and with over 50 major parks and 4 nature reserves, it is an enchanting garden city. Large self-contained residential towns have mushroomed all over the island, around the clean and modern city centre. Singapore CBD The CBD (Central Business District) is in the south of the island. 1°17′30″N 103°51′1″EMap of Singapore City Centre. Static map Riverside (Civic District) Singapore's colonial core, with museums, statues and theatres, plus restaurants, bars and clubs, centred along the banks of the Singapore River at Boat Quay and Clarke Quay. Orchard Road Miles and miles of shopping malls in air-conditioned comfort. At the eastern end, the Bras Basah District is an arts and culture project in progress. Marina Bay Dominated by the Marina Bay Sands integrated resort (hotel, casino, shopping mall, convention centre and museum), the futuristic Gardens by the Bay, and the Marina Barrage. Along with the Singapore Flyer and the Esplanade Theatres, Marina Bay makes up the new iconic skyline of Singapore. Bugis and Kampong Glam Bugis and Kampong Glam are Singapore's old Malay district, good for shopping in the day but especially coming to life at night. Chinatown The area was designated for Chinese settlement by Raffles, and is now a Chinese heritage area popular with tourists. Restored shophouses make for trendy hangouts for locals and expats alike. Little India A piece of India to the north of the city core. Outer Singapore 1°21′49″N 103°49′30″EMap of Outer Singapore. Static map There's more to see outside the main city centre of Singapore, from the HDB (Housing and Development Board) heartlands where hawker food is king, to the Singapore Zoo. Or chill out in the parks and beaches of the East Coast and Sentosa. Sentosa and Harbourfront A separate island once a military fort that has been developed into a resort. Sentosa is the closest that Singapore gets to Disneyland, with a dash of gambling and the Universal Studios theme park thrown in. Across the water, there's Mount Faber and the Southern Ridges, an urban treetop walk with local monkeys. We also cover Singapore's Southern Islands as part of this article, some of which are accessible to tourists by ferry. East Coast The largely residential eastern part of the island contains Changi Airport, miles and miles of beach and many famous eateries. Also covers Geylang Serai, the true home of Singapore's Malays, and Pulau Ubin, the last remnant of a rustic Singapore. North and West The northern and western parts of the island, known as Woodlands and Jurong respectively, form Singapore's residential and industrial hinterlands. By far the largest tourist attraction here is the Mandai complex, containing all four of Singapore's spectacular zoos. Balestier, Newton, Novena and Toa Payoh Budget accommodations and Burmese temples within striking distance of Central Singapore. Toa Payoh, one of Singapore's first planned neighbourhoods, is an easy way to wander around a local housing estate and experience the town centre design unique to Singapore. Addresses In the centre, Singapore's addressing system is fairly similar to other English-speaking countries (such as 17 Orchard Rd), but the new housing developments on the outskirts may appear more intimidating: a typical address might be "Blk 505 Bedok Nth Ave 3 #19-315". Here, "Blk 505" is the housing block number (Blk = Block), "Bedok Nth Ave 3" is the street name & number, and "#19-315" means floor 19 apartment 315. The first digit of both housing block and street number is the neighbourhood's number (in this case 5), making it easier to narrow down the right location. There are also 6-digit postal codes, with the last three digits corresponding to exactly one building. For example, "Blk 181 Bedok Nth Rd" is "S'pore 460181". Finally, you will also encounter Malay terms in addresses: the most commonly used are Jalan (Jln) for "Road", Lorong (Lor) for "Lane", Bukit (Bt) for "Hill" and Kampong (Kg) for "Village". Useful tools for hunting down addresses include StreetDirectory.com, GoThere.sg and OneMap.sg. The "Blk" and unit number can and should be omitted when entering addresses into these sites: "505 Bedok Nth Ave 3" will do. Understand The Singapore CBD skyline Singapore is a microcosm of Asia, populated by Chinese, Malays, Indians and a large group of workers and expatriates from all around the globe, in a country that can be crossed in barely an hour. Having celebrated its 50th birthday in 2015, Singapore has more often than not chosen economic pragmatism over social concerns, encouraging constant reuse and redevelopment of land with huge projects like the Marina Bay Sands and Resorts World Sentosa integrated resorts as well as becoming a significant Asian financial hub, but there has also been a growing push-back to preserve local heritage in Balestier and elsewhere; just one of the many decisions to balance for the country's future. History The first mentions of Singapore in historical records date back to the second and third centuries, in Greek and Chinese texts. According to legend, Srivijayan prince Sang Nila Utama landed on the island in the 13th century and, catching sight of a strange creature that he thought was a lion, decided to found a new city he called Singapura, Sanskrit for Lion City. Alas, there have never been any lions anywhere near Singapore or elsewhere in Malaya, so the mysterious beast was more probably a tiger or wild boar. Other records indicate that the island was settled earlier and was an important port for various kingdoms for centuries. However, Portuguese raiders destroyed the settlement in 1613 and Singapura faded into obscurity. The story of Singapore as we know it today began in 1819, when Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles made a deal with a claimant to the throne of the Sultanate of Johor: the British would support his claim in exchange for the right to set up a trading post on the island. Though the Dutch initially protested, an Anglo-Dutch treaty was signed in 1824 separating the Malay world into British and Dutch spheres of influence (resulting in the current Malaysia-Indonesia and Singapore-Indonesia borders). The Dutch renounced their claim to Singapore and ceded their colony in Malacca to the British, in exchange for the British ceding their colonies on Sumatra to the Dutch. Capital Singapore Currency Singapore dollar (SGD) Population 5.8 million (2021) Electricity 230 volt / 50 hertz (BS 1363) Country code +65 Time zone UTC+08:00, Singapore Standard Time, Asia/Singapore Emergencies 995 (fire department, emergency medical services), 999 (police) Driving side left edit on Wikidata Raffles' master stroke was to declare Singapore a free port, with no duties charged on trade. As traders flocked to escape onerous Dutch taxes, the trading post soon grew into one of Asia's busiest, drawing people from far and wide. Along with Penang and Malacca, Singapore became one of the Straits Settlements and a jewel in the British colonial crown. Its economic fortunes received a further boost when palm oil and rubber from other parts of Malaya were processed and shipped out via Singapore. In 1867, the Straits Settlements were split off from British India and made into a directly ruled Crown Colony. When World War II broke out, Fortress Singapore was seen as a formidable British base, with massive naval fortifications guarding against assault by sea. However, not only did the fortress lack a fleet - as most ships were tied up defending Britain from the Germans - but the Japanese wisely chose to cross Malaya by bicycle instead. Despite hastily turning their artillery around, the British were not prepared for an attack from the north, and on 15 February 1942, with supplies critically low after less than a week of fighting, Singapore ignominiously surrendered. The colony's erstwhile rulers were packed off to Changi Prison, and tens of thousands of Singaporeans perished in the subsequent brutal occupation. The British returned in 1945, but it was clear that their time was coming to an end. Granted self-rule in 1955, Singapore briefly joined the Malaysian Federation in 1963 when the British left, but was expelled in the aftermath of two bloody racial riots in 1964, because the Chinese-majority city was seen as a threat to Malay dominance. Consequently, when the island became independent on 9 August 1965, Singapore became the only country in the history of the modern world to gain independence against its own will. The subsequent 25 years of iron-fisted rule by the late prime minister Lee Kuan Yew saw Singapore's economy boom, with the country rapidly becoming one of the wealthiest and most developed in Asia despite its lack of natural resources, earning it a place as one of the four East Asian Tigers. The ruling People's Action Party (PAP) continues to dominate the political scene with a supermajority in Parliament. Societal restrictions have been loosened up though, with the government trying to shake off its staid image, and it remains to be seen how the delicate balancing act between political control and social freedom will play out. “ But if you are a troublemaker... it's our job to politically destroy you. ” Lee Kuan Yew, commenting on his political rivals. In modern times, Singapore has tried to position itself as a neutral state balancing the interests of major world powers such as the United States and China. This has made Singapore a popular alternative to Switzerland for diplomatically sensitive talks between foreign leaders, such as the meeting between Chinese president Xi Jinping and Taiwanese president Ma Ying-jeou in 2015, and the meeting between American president Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in 2018. People Singapore prides itself on being a multi-racial country and has diverse cultures despite its small size. Singaporeans make up two-thirds of the population. The largest group are the Chinese (about 75%), in which the largest subgroups are the Hokkien, Teochew and Cantonese, with Mandarin acting as the lingua franca of the community. Malays, who are descended from Singapore's indigenous inhabitants and migrants from throughout the Malay Archipelago comprise 14% of all Singaporeans. Indians, which in Singapore refers to anyone of South Asian descent, form about 9% of residents. Among the Indians, Tamils form the largest subgroup by far, though there are also other subgroups such as the Malayalees, Punjabis and Sindhis. The remainder are a mix of many other cultures, most notably the Eurasians who are of mixed European and Asian descent, and also the Peranakans or Straits Chinese, who are of mixed Chinese and Malay descent. Other smaller communities include the Parsis, Hadhrami Arabs and Baghdadi Jews. The Marina Bay Sands and Singapore Flyer Singapore has always been an open country and at least a third of its population has arrived from elsewhere. They range from Burmese to Japanese to Thais and many others. There's also a large number of Filipinos, many of them working in the service industry or as domestic helpers. Throngs of happily smiling and chattering Filipinas may be seen in public spaces, one of which is a shopping mall named Lucky Plaza situated along Orchard Road, on Sundays when they take their only day off. Singapore is by some measures the most religiously diverse country in the world with no religious group forming a majority, and religious freedom guaranteed by the constitution. Buddhism is the largest religion with about one-third of the population declaring themselves Buddhist. Other religions which exist in significant numbers include Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Taoism. In addition to the "big five", the other officially-recognised religions are Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, the Baha'i Faith and Jainism. About 17% of Singaporeans are irreligious (known in Singapore as "free thinkers"). Climate Singapore Climate chart (explanation) JFMAMJJASOND 222 31 24 105 32 25 152 32 25 164 32 25 164 32 26 135 32 26 147 31 25 147 31 25 125 32 25 168 32 25 252 31 25 332 31 24 Average max. and min. temperatures in °C Precipitation+Snow totals in mmSource: w:Singapore#Climate Imperial conversion JFMAMJJASOND 8.7 87 76 4.1 89 76 6 90 77 6.5 90 78 6.5 90 78 5.3 89 78 5.8 89 78 5.8 89 78 4.9 89 77 6.6 89 77 9.9 88 76 13 87 76 Average max. and min. temperatures in °F Precipitation+Snow totals in inches As Singapore is 1°17' north of the Equator, its tropical weather is usually sunny with little in the way of distinct seasons. Rain falls almost daily throughout the year, usually in sudden, heavy showers that rarely last longer than an hour. However, most rainfall occurs during the northeast monsoon (November to January), occasionally featuring lengthy spells of continuous rain. Spectacular thunderstorms can occur throughout the year, any time during the day, so it's wise to carry an umbrella at all times, both as a shade from the sun and a cover from the rain. Between May and October, forest fires in neighbouring Sumatra can also cause dense haze, although this is unpredictable and comes and goes rapidly: check with the National Environment Agency for up-to-date conditions. The temperature averages around: 31 °C (88 °F) daytime, 24.5 °C (76.1 °F) at night in December and January. 32.5 °C (90.5 °F) daytime, 25.5 °C (77.9 °F) at night for the rest of the year. Singapore's lowest temperature ever was 19.4 °C (66.9 °F), recorded in 1934, with its highest temperature ever being 37 °C (99 °F), recorded in 2023. The high temperature and humidity, combined with the lack of wind and the fact that temperatures stay high during the night, can take its toll on visitors from colder parts of the world. Bear in mind that spending more than about an hour outdoors can be very exhausting, especially if combined with moderate exercise. Singaporeans themselves shun the heat, and for a good reason. Many live in air-conditioned flats, work in air-conditioned offices, take the air-conditioned metro to air-conditioned shopping malls connected to each other by underground tunnels where they shop, eat, and exercise in air-conditioned fitness clubs, only venturing out early in the morning and at night. Follow their example if you want to avoid discomfort in the searing heat and humidity of Singapore. Units of measure Singapore is for the most part fully
